[Music]
the system started long time back in
India I think he was at the time of
Patanjali maybe even earlier for giving
realization for talking about higher
life they all had to go to very grateful
Isis and it was absolutely the freedom
of the Guru whom to accept who lockers
and everybody was tested thoroughly by
the Guru if they are capable of
achieving self-realization on and this
test was so hard so difficult and also
to a point of cruelty that very few
could pass through that test it's not
like sahaja yoga everybody is a sahaja
yogi it's not like that that of course
made it a very narrow margin for people
to achieve their realization and these
Guru never used to leave their own seats
they call it the Kea they would be there
in their own place all those who would
like to go to him could come you may
call for miles together nothing no
obligations of the Guru that he should
meet
perhaps they didn't feel that love and
compassion for the seekers they int
understand that basic us are ardently
seeking the truth and they should not
suffer so to get this group odda to
position of a guru after that they had
to work very very hard to achieve a
state of a saint but in sahaja yoga that
is not the case as you know I just
thought if people get their realization
they'll see for themselves what's wrong
with them they will introspect
themselves and will try to correct
themselves I am supposed to be your guru
but I feel sometimes that the idea of a
guru is very different from mine
normally a guru is a very very strict
person and has no patience of Vega but
as you all have got realization and you
are your own gurus I don't put that
condition on I leave it to your feet I
tell you or Leslie in all the way
possible what I think good for but I
don't compel
like these gurus used to do I mean they
used to beat they used to hang them on
the well they were so very strict with
their disciples and I had an experience
of this they never used to spike no
question of laughing
and would never show any kind of
weakness of kindness for the decides
this is about the spiritual gurus I'm
telling the way they used to treat the
disciples
was rather difficult for me I can't
all the time the compassion becomes the
tears in my eyes I find it impossible I
may just say it in a way sometimes also
say it in a way that looks like that is
scolding but to be a mother and to be a
guru is the most difficulty
I do not know what comes first but of
course every mother wants her child to
be good and the Holy Mother wants her
child to be a holy person the first
thing is the holiness now for that
how can you compel someone
only thing that makes you understand is
this that if you don't become Modi how
will you get your asset we have to be
holy what discipline one can put for
making a personhood what can you force
what can you get angry for
only method I use normally is to forgive
maybe
the forgiveness is the highest quality I
think for teaching people sahaja Yoga is
very different from all other gurus that
we believe in the power of love
power of love teaches you how to be
forgiving
it makes you know boo it makes you very
balanced now at this stage when we are
about to become gurus or we are already
gurus should be nothing but embodiment
of love it's a very different cerium
testing no guru will accept this those
who are already already accepted as
gurus all over all the knowledge that
you've got in sahaja yoga has been
already told by those gurus long time
back somebody has told you somebody has
told that somebody has told that but all
the knowledge the total knowledge about
your being your chakras everything which
you know now is with you that is the
truth you have the complete subtle
knowledge which nobody had before
because maybe these gurus did not want
to give or maybe these gurus did not
know themselves all the knowledge of
sahaja Yoga is simple very subtle and is
real now after having this within you
should not be just mental it should be
spiritual and to make it spiritual what
happened to do is to now when you love
others you start working on them but the
end of the whole thing I must tell you
that when you are a guru
also a mother you have to express
yourself like a mother she's kind she's
gentle she forgives
she also corrects whenever necessary but
in her own sweet me she corrects so the
correction takes place is not that a
rebellion darkness so all that wisdom of
a mother is within you is already there
so please try to use I am sure it will
all work out and as it is we are a very
beautiful group of people who are
something out of the blue who are so
much in peace and enjoy - that may God
you
[Music]